Add batch-client-messages. (#4)
tikv/rfcs: text/2018-10-15-batch-client-messages.md

responses for batched requests. For example, TiDB can send a
`BatchCommandsRequest` with requests `[Req-1, Req-2, Req-3, Req-4, Req-5]`,
however TiKV can give `BatchCommandsResponse`s back with responses `[Resp-1,
Resp-5, Resp-3]` and `[Resp-2, Resp-4]`. It's unnecessary to wait for any
responses which comes from one `BatchCommandsRequest`; the order just depends
on processing speed of every requests.

`request_ids` in both `BatchCommandsRequest` and `BatchCommandsResponse` is
used to relate requests and responses in the streaming interface. When clients
send a batch request to TiKV, they also need to store their `request_ids`
somewhere, and then dispatch responses (extracted from batch responses)
respectively to them.

`oneof` is used to unify requests and responses, instead of a `message`. Their
wired protocols are almost same, but the former's generated code is much better.

The last thing is `transport_layer_load` in `BatchCommandsResponse`, which is
used by TiKV to tell clients the current load of TiKV.  So clients can adjust
their strategy (e.g. add some backoff to avoid little batch) to be more
effective for TiKV.

> ### Implement in TiKV

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Implemention in TiKV
```

The implementation in TiKV is very simple. It just extracts `Request`s from
`BatchCommandsRequest`, dispatches them to engine layer, and then collects the
`Response`s into `BatchCommandsResponse` and sends it to clients.

### Implement in TiDB

The implementation in TiDB is a little complex. One TiDB can establish many
connections to one TiKV, and for every connection TiDB will construct a map
to associate requests with some IDs. When send requests to TiKVs, TiDB needs
to decide to wait for a while to collect a bigger batch or not. In our design
it depends on TiKVs' load returned in `BatchCommandsResponse`. If it's greater
than a configurable value, TiDB will wait 2 millisecond and then do the send.

### How TiKV knows its gRPC threads are busy

> TiKV gets CPU usage of gRPC threads by reading

Reviewer: How will this be handled by other operating systems?

    repeated Response responses = 1;
    repeated uint64 request_ids = 2;
    // Indicates the TiKV's transport layer is in heavy load or not.
    uint64 transport_layer_load = 3;

    message Response {
        oneof cmd {
            GetResponse Get = 1;
            ScanResponse Scan = 2;
            // ... more other responses respectively.
        }
    }
}
```

First of all, it's a dual-way streaming interface. It means TiKV is to constuct
responses for batched requests. For example, TiDB can send a
`BatchCommandsRequest` with requests `[Req-1, Req-2, Req-3, Req-4, Req-5]`,
however TiKV can give `BatchCommandsResponse`s back with responses `[Resp-1,
Resp-5, Resp-3]` and `[Resp-2, Resp-4]`. It's unnecessary to wait for any
responses which comes from one `BatchCommandsRequest`; the order just depends
on processing speed of every requests.

`request_ids` in both `BatchCommandsRequest` and `BatchCommandsResponse` is
used to relate requests and responses in the streaming interface. When clients
send a batch request to TiKV, they also need to store their `request_ids`
somewhere, and then dispatch responses (extracted from batch responses)
respectively to them.

> And then `oneof` is used to unify requests and responses, instead of a

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`oneof` is used to unify requests and responses, instead of a
```

`message`. Their wired protocols are almost same, but the former's generated

> code is much more better.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
code is much better.
```

The last thing is `transport_layer_load` in `BatchCommandsResponse`, which is

> used for TiKV can tell clients the current load of TiKV.  So clients can adjust

Reviewer: ```suggestion
used by TiKV to tell clients the current load of TiKV.  So clients can adjust
```

less `send` (or `sendmsg`) syscalls, which normally means less gRPC CPU usage.

## Detailed design

### BatchCommands interface

The new interface `BatchCommands` in `Tikv` service looks like this:

```proto
service Tikv {
    // ... some old interfaces.
    rpc BatchCommands(stream BatchCommandsRequest) returns (stream BatchCommandsResponse) {}
}

message BatchCommandsRequest {
    repeated Request requests = 1;
    repeated uint64 request_ids = 2;

    message Request {
        oneof cmd {
            GetRequest Get = 1;
            ScanRequest Scan = 2;
            // ... more other requests.
        }
    }
}

message BatchCommandsResponse {
    repeated Response responses = 1;
    repeated uint64 request_ids = 2;
    // Indicates the TiKV's transport layer is in heavy load or not.
    uint64 transport_layer_load = 3;

    message Response {
        oneof cmd {
            GetResponse Get = 1;
            ScanResponse Scan = 2;
            // ... more other responses respectively.
        }
    }
}
```

First of all, it's a dual-way streaming interface. It means TiKV is to constuct
responses for batched requests. For example, TiDB can send a

> `BatchCommandsRequest` with requests `[Req-1, Req-2, Req-3, Req-4, Req-5]`,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`BatchCommandsRequest` with requests `[Req-1, Req-2, Req-3, Req-4, Req-5]`.
```

> however TiKV can give `BatchCommandsResponse`s back with responses `[Resp-1,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, TiKV may send back `BatchCommandsResponse`s with responses `[Resp-1,
```

Resp-5, Resp-3]` and `[Resp-2, Resp-4]`. It's unnecessary to wait for any
responses which comes from one `BatchCommandsRequest`; the order just depends
on processing speed of every requests.

`request_ids` in both `BatchCommandsRequest` and `BatchCommandsResponse` is
used to relate requests and responses in the streaming interface. When clients

> send a batch request to TiKV, they also need to store their `request_ids`

Author: Yes.

somewhere, and then dispatch responses (extracted from batch responses)

> respectively to them.

Author: Clients. Here it's not clear enough, please help me to improve it.

`oneof` is used to unify requests and responses, instead of a `message`. Their
wired protocols are almost same, but the former's generated code is much better.

The last thing is `transport_layer_load` in `BatchCommandsResponse`, which is
used by TiKV to tell clients the current load of TiKV.  So clients can adjust
their strategy (e.g. add some backoff to avoid little batch) to be more
effective for TiKV.

### Implementation in TiKV

The implementation in TiKV is very simple. It just extracts `Request`s from
`BatchCommandsRequest`, dispatches them to engine layer, and then collects the

> `Response`s into `BatchCommandsResponse` and sends it to clients.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Response`s into `BatchCommandsResponse`, and sends it to clients.
```

### Implement in TiDB

> The implementation in TiDB is a little complex. One TiDB can establish many

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The implementation in TiDB is a little complex. One TiDB server can establish many
```

> connections to one TiKV, and for every connection TiDB will construct a map

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
connections to one TiKV server, and for every connection TiDB will construct a map
```

> to associate requests with some IDs. When send requests to TiKVs, TiDB needs

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to associate requests with some IDs. Before sending requests to TiKV, TiDB needs
```

Reviewer 2: with some IDs? With what IDs? Better be specific

> to decide to wait for a while to collect a bigger batch or not. In our design

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to decide whether to wait for a while to collect a bigger batch or not. In our design,
```

> it depends on TiKVs' load returned in `BatchCommandsResponse`. If it's greater

Reviewer 2: Why using "TiKVs" (in plural form) 
```suggestion
this depends on TiKVs' load returned in `BatchCommandsResponse`. If the load is greater
```

> than a configurable value, TiDB will wait 2 millisecond and then do the send.

Reviewer 2: "a configurable value" refers to? 
```suggestion
than a configurable value, TiDB will wait for 2 milliseconds before sending the requests.
```

### How TiKV knows its gRPC threads are busy

TiKV gets CPU usage of gRPC threads by reading
`/proc/<tikv-pid>/tasks/<grpc-tid>`, which is only avaliable on Linux. If gRPC

> CPU usage is greater than 80% in last 1 seconds, TiKV can tell clients it's

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
CPU usage is greater than 80% in last second, TiKV can inform clients that it's
```

> overload.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
overloaded.
```

> However it's not available on other operating systems. In these cases TiKV will

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
However, this function not available on other operating systems, in which case TiKV will
```

> never tell clients it's overload, which means `transport_layer_load` will be 0.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
never tell clients it's overloaded, which means `transport_layer_load` will be 0.
```

## Drawbacks

> As you can see we introduce a *wait algorithm* in TiDB, which must cause a

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
As you can see,  the *wait algorithm* we introduce in TiDB will surely cause a
```

> higher latency when the algorithm works. However a bigger batch means less

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
higher latency when the algorithm works. However, a bigger batch means less
```

# Batch Client Messages

## Summary

This proposal adds a new API `BatchCommands` in `Tikv` service, which
contains a vector of raw client requests (e.g. `GetRequest`). It can reduce
gRPC messages count dramatically; and, according to tests, the performance
is improved considerably, especially when TiKV or TiDB's CPU usage reaches
the bottleneck.

## Motivation

In the current implementation, the default configuration of `grpc-concurrency`

> is `4`, which could be a bottleneck of TiKV under heavy load. Although we can

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
is `4`, which could be a bottleneck for TiKV under heavy load. Although we can
```

    uint64 transport_layer_load = 3;

    message Response {
        oneof cmd {
            GetResponse Get = 1;
            ScanResponse Scan = 2;
            // ... more other responses respectively.
        }
    }
}
```

`BatchCommands` is a dual-way streaming interface. This means TiKV will constuct
responses for batched requests. For example, TiDB can send a
`BatchCommandsRequest` with requests `[Req-1, Req-2, Req-3, Req-4, Req-5]`.
However TiKV may send back `BatchCommandsResponse`s back with responses `[Resp-1,
Resp-5, Resp-3]` and `[Resp-2, Resp-4]`. It's unnecessary to wait for any
single response that comes from one `BatchCommandsRequest`; the order depends
on processing speed of each request.

`request_ids` in both `BatchCommandsRequest` and `BatchCommandsResponse` is
used to map requests and responses in the streaming interface so that TiDB can
know one response is for which request.

We use `oneof` instead of `message` to unify requests and responses. Their
wired protocols are almost the same, but the former generates much better code.

`transport_layer_load` in `BatchCommandsResponse` is
used by TiKV to tell clients its current load, so clients can adjust

> their strategy (e.g. add some backoff to avoid little batch) to be more

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
their strategy (e.g. add some backoff time to avoid overly small batch) to be more
```

# Summary

> Add a new API `BatchCommands` into `Tikv` service, which contains a vector of raw client requests (e.g. `GetRequest`). It can reduce gRPC messages count obviously, and according to tests the performance is improved considerably, especially when TiKV or TiDB's CPU usage is the bottle-neck.

Reviewer 3: seem we can use bottleneck directly? no need - here. 

@lilin90

Reviewer 4: @siddontang Yes. "bottleneck" is the standard version for this word.

# Motivation

In the current implement the default configuration of `grpc-concurrency` is `4`, so it could be a bottle-neck of TiKV under heavy load. Although we can increase the configuration value, or make it adaptable further, we still need to try best to reduce the gRPC CPU usage. With `BatchCommands` interface, clients can batch some requests into one request, and send them to TiKV with less `send` (or `sendmsg`) syscalls, which normally means less gRPC CPU usage.

# Detailed design

## BatchCommands interface

The new interface `BatchCommands` in `Tikv` service looks like this:
```proto
service Tikv {
    // ... some old interfaces.
    rpc BatchCommands(stream BatchCommandsRequest) returns (stream BatchCommandsResponse) {}
}

message BatchCommandsRequest {
    repeated Request requests = 1;
    repeated uint64 request_ids = 2;
    
    message Request {
	oneof cmd {

> 	    GetRequest Get = 1;

Reviewer 5: Please don't mix tabs and spaces(

            ScanRequest Scan = 2;
            // ... more other requests.
        }
    }
}

message BatchCommandsResponse {
    repeated Response responses = 1;
    repeated uint64 request_ids = 2;
    // Indicates the TiKV's transport layer is in heavy load or not.
    bool in_heavy_load = 3;

    message Response {
        oneof cmd {
            GetResponse Get = 1;
            ScanResponse Scan = 2;
            // ... more other responses respectively.
        }
    }
}
```

> First of all, it's a dual-way streaming interface. It makes TiKV can be free to constuct responses for batched requests. For example, TiDB can send a `BatchCommandsRequest` with requests `[Req-1, Req-2, Req-3, Req-4, Req-5]`, however TiKV can give `BatchCommandsResponse`s back with responses `[Resp-1, Resp-5, Resp-3]` and `[Resp-2, Resp-4]`. It's unnecessary to wait for any responses which comes from one `BatchCommandsRequest`; the order just depends on processing speed of every requests.

Reviewer 6: Should `TiKV` here be inside a code block?

Reviewer 5: Seems not

`request_ids` in both `BatchCommandsRequest` and `BatchCommandsResponse` is used to relate requests and responses in the streaming interface. When clients send a batch request to TiKV, they also need to store their `request_ids` somewhere, and then dispatch responses (extracted from batch responses) respectively to them.

And then `oneof` is used to unify requests and responses, instead of a `message`. Their wired protocols are almost same, but the former's generated code is much more better.

The last thing is `in_heavy_load` in `BatchCommandsResponse`, which is used for TiKV can tell clients the load of TiKV is heavy or not. So clients can adjust their strategy (e.g. add some backoff to avoid little batch) to be more effective for TiKV.

## Implement in TiKV

> The implement in TiKV is very simle. It just extract `Request`s from `BatchCommandsRequest`, dispatch them to engine layer, and then collect the `Response`s into `BatchCommandsResponse` and send it to clients.

Reviewer 3: implementation

Reviewer 3: It just extracts 
dispatches 
collects
sends

> The implement in TiKV is very simle. It just extract `Request`s from `BatchCommandsRequest`, dispatch them to engine layer, and then collect the `Response`s into `BatchCommandsResponse` and send it to clients.

Reviewer 7: simple

## How TiKV knows its gRPC threads are busy

> TiKV gets CPU usage of gRPC threads by reading `/proc/<tikv-pid>/tasks/<grpc-tid>`, which is only avaliable on Linux. If gRPC CPU usage is greater than 80% in last 3 seconds, TiKV can tell clients it's in heavy load.

Reviewer 3: you must notice that reading the file and parsing it are not cheap, use it carefully.

Reviewer 8: Maybe you can get these values from prometheus metrics.

Reviewer 8: How about utilizing gRPC metrics? They are more accurate and comprehensive.

Reviewer: ping @hicqu

> # Drawbacks

Reviewer 3: maybe you should mention the latency problem and how we improve it

> # Alternatives

Reviewer 6: Is this a TODO?

Reviewer: Seems so.
